include::_{backend}_settings.adoc[]

= D&C Overview

== What is Deployment?

Deployment in the context of DnCX11 refers to those activities required
to make a distributed, component based application (which represents the
end product of the development process) ready for use. DnCX11 also
includes the activities involved in the reverse process (controlled
shutdown of an application) in the definition. Typically this process
involves configuration and installation of resources (computing nodes,
network links, storage devices etc.) and application artifacts
(libraries, executables, configuration files etc.) up until the point
where the application code is executed (or, in reverse, from the point
where the application code is stopped).

From some viewpoints configuration can be seen as an integrated part of
the deployment process while from other viewpoints it can be seen as a
separate (sub-)process hence the term _Deployment & Configuration._

== Where do we deploy?

The target environment for deployment of a distributed component base
application typically consists of a collection of computing nodes
(devices or environments featuring a CPU and operating system capable of
executing software component binaries) connected by a series of
(network) links. Such an environment could possibly be augmented with
special peripheral and/or embedded devices like printers, storage units,
sensors of any kind and other resources.

Conceptually D&C defines such a target environment as a _Domain_
consisting of __Node__s, __Interconnect__s, __Bridge__s and other __Resource__s.

image:{images_root}/domain.png[www.remedy.nl]

Within the conceptual _Domain_ a _Node_ is the primary target location
where component artifacts are installed to and subsequently configured
and executed. An _Interconnect_ directly links one or more nodes
(linking one node defines a loopback connection) and a _Bridge_ provides
an indirect connection between nodes. +
 Peripheral and/or embedded devices like storage units etc. are
represented as _Resource_.

Mapped to the physical reality a conceptual _Node_ typically represents
a physically distinct computing device (PC, tablet, smartphone, embedded
computing board etc.) but could also represent a fully virtualized
computing environment or even simply a separate process in the same
environment as other node processes. The _Interconnect_s can represent
physical network connections between nodes (cabled or wireless) but also
simple localhost loopback connections between processes on the same
computing device.

In the context of a single _Node_ one or more application component
instances are executed in the context of what is called a _Locality_. A
_Node_ can host application component instances in one or more
_Localities_. Typically a _Locality_ equates with a separate process in
the operating environment of the _Node_ (if such a thing is defined in
that environment) but not necessarily. DnCX11 for example supports the
creation of a _Locality_ in process with a _Node Manager_ (see
<<dncx11-config.adoc#_locality_manager_configuration_properties,here>>).

image:{images_root}/node.png[www.remedy.nl]

See the https://www.omg.org/spec/DEPL[OMG Deployment
& Configuration (D&C) specification] for more
details concerning _Domain_ definitions.

== What do we deploy?

DnCX11 implements a runtime framework that supports deployment of
distributed applications as described in the D&C specification (see
above) which means that the description of what is to be deployed at
which location is provided by a _Deployment Plan_ (or just _Plan_).

The _Plan_ provides a description of the application component types and
associated artifacts, their instances and the connections between them
as well as how to distribute them over the _Domain_. +
 The major elements in a _Plan_ are:

* _Implementation_
* _Instance_
* _Connection_
* _Artifact_
* _LocalityConstraint_

_Implementation_ elements describe the component implementation to
install identifying the runtime artifacts required (libraries,
executables, other objects) the artifact(s) and factory(-ies) with which
to instantiate an _Instance_ and any configuration properties required.

_Instance_ elements describe specific component instances for an
_Implementation_ identifying on which _Node_ the instance needs to be
created and any runtime configuration properties required.

_Connection_ elements describe the connections to be set up between
components _Instance_s identifying ports (interfaces) provided by
instances and the peer ports or other type of endpoints these ports need
to be connected to.

_Artifact_ elements describe the actual binary objects (including
libraries, executables, scripts etc.) required for component
implementations identifying their source location and other properties.

_LocalityConstraint_ elements describe the way component __Instance__s may
be distributed over _Localities_ identifying which instances should be
co-located in the same _Locality_ or which should explicitly not be
co-located.

For more information concerning deployment plans, how to create them and
the support DnCX11 provides see <<deployment-planning.adoc#,Deployment
planning>>.

== How do we deploy?

Looking at the _Domain_ concept and the _Deployment Plan_ we can
recognize three organization levels for deployment:

* the Domain level which includes all Nodes with all Localities
* the Node level which includes a single Node with all Localities
* the Locality level which includes a single Locality

From a fully specified _Plan_ the deployment of a complete distributed
application can be directed from the Domain level in a coordinated and
synchronized way using a capable toolset. DnCX11 includes support for
this type of deployment.

image:{images_root}/domain-deploy.png[www.remedy.nl]

This type of deployment has been the classic way of thinking about D&C
style deployment and has proven to work well for highly structured
distributed applications running in stable computing environments with
fixed network links.

Because Domain level deployment needs to coordinate the deployment to
the distributed nodes from a central director (Domain Manager) this type
of deployment has pretty strict requirements for stable network links
between the central director and the nodes as well as requirements on
the reliability and availability of the nodes. These requirements make
Domain level deployments less applicable for more loosely coupled
applications based on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) designs or
applications in the domain of mobile devices.

The availability and connectivity of __Node__s and __Localities__ in these
kind of application environments would not be predictable or stable
enough to make effective use of centrally directed Domain level
deployment. Instead these kind of application would be far better served
by deployment at a _Node_ or even a single _Locality_ level.

DnCX11 supports this kind of applications by providing the ability to
launch plans at the _Domain_ level as well as at the _Node_ and even at
the _Locality_ level. Supplementing this DnCX11 provides tools which can
be used to split _Domain_ level __Plan__s into _Node_ level __Plan__s and
from _Node_ into _Locality_ level __Plan__s.
